# SkinDetect v2

This is the repo for the second version of the SkinDetect App developed in Flutter.

## About SkinDetect

SkinDetect is an app that uses artificial intelligence to recognize eight different types of skin
lesions. The app can detect various types of skin lesions, ranging from dangerous skin cancers like
basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common form of skin cancer, to harmless lesions like normal
moles (melanocytic nevus).

## Motivation

The SkinDetect app was developed to contribute to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals established
by the United Nations. Specifically, this app strives to support the aim to limit diseases all
around the world, which was formulated under development goal number 3: "health and well-being".
![Sustainable Development Goals](documentation/development_goals.jpg "Source: https://www.clariant.com/de/Sustainability/Sustainable-Development-Goals")

Skin cancer is widespread, and more than 1.5 million people worldwide are affected by it every year.
Studies from the USA illustrate the prevalence after they came to the prediction that,
statistically, every fifth American will get skin cancer once in his life. However, the chance of
survival from the disease is high thanks to medical advances. For black skin cancer, for example,
studies suggest that the 5-year survival rate is 99% if the cancer has not yet spread to the lymph
nodes. If the cancer has already spread and hit nearby lymph nodes, the likelihood of survival drops
to only 68%. If distant lymph nodes and organs are affected, the risk is as low as 30%. These
research results show that early and accurate detection is essential for survival.

To support this early and accurate detection, we developed this app to help dermatologists with
their diagnosis and give people without a medical background the chance to make an assessment about
their skin lesions.

## Cost of this app

We made the SkinDetect app completely free so that anyone, regardless of income, could use it. The
only requirement is that you have a smartphone capable of running this app. All devices with Android
4.1 (and above) or iOS 11 (and above) are supported.

## Privacy protection

As this app handles sensitive information about your health, we put a great emphasis on the
protection of your data. That's why we implemented a "privacy by design" model. By default, no data
from your skin lesion scans is saved. Not locally nor in the cloud. However, if you wish to save a
diagnosis, it is possible to do so. But even when saving a scan, your data is protected as it is
only saved locally on your device.